In this lecture, I'm going to talk about
RBAC with mutual TLS.
It's covering the authorization aspect of
security with Istio.
Now that we are using Mutual TLS,
we have strong identities.
Based on those identities, we can start doing
Role Based Access Control, or called RBAC.
RBAC allows us to limit access between our services,
and from end-user to services.
Istio is able to verify the identity of a service
by checking the identity of the x.509 certificate,
which comes with enabling mutual TLS.
So now that we have mutual TLS on,
we have certificates and then services communicate
with each other via RBAC changing these certificates,
and this identity, this name,
is embedded in the certificate, so it cannot be faked,
or cannot be changed.
Then that way we have this strong identity.
So when one service contacts another service,
they know whom they're communicating with.
For example, if you're going to use RBAC,
service A can be contacted by B, but not by C.
So by default, every service can contact each other.
Now that we enabled RBAC, we can say that
service C cannot contact service A, but service B can.
Also good to know, the identities capability in Istio
is built using the SPIFFE standard,
Secure Production Identity Framework for Everyone.
That's another CNCF project.
So RBAC in Istio can provide service-to-service
and end-user-to-service authorization.
It supports conditions and role-binding.
It can bind two ServiceAccounts,
which can be linked to pods.
So you have a pod, in your pod you have a ServiceAccount,
and in Istio you can use RoleBinding
to bind a role to the ServiceAccount.
So it will be this ServiceAccount that you need
to access another service, for example.
End-user-to-service can for example,
let you create conditions.
One, for example, being authenticated using JWT.
So you can put certain conditions to be able
to access a service and one of those conditions can be
that the user contacting the service
needs to be authenticated
and you can do this check based on JWT.
So this would be something that
often would be written in the application.
Now this can be uploaded to Istio.
It also has high performance,
as it's natively enforced on Envoy.
Envoy is the sidecar proxy.
RBAC is not enabled by default, so we have to enable it
We can enable it globally, or on a namespace basis.
For example, in the demo, we'll only enable it
for the default namespace.
So this is what we will do.
So this is demo file that we will use.
We'll use an object of kind: RbacConfig
and we'll only include the default namespace.
We can then create a ServiceRole that specifies the rules
and the ServiceRoleBinding to link a ServiceRole
to a subject and a subject can be for example,
a Kubernetes ServiceAccount.
So let me explain you this example.
Here is again our hello world example, the first version.
In this example, you could just log in to the world pod
and the world pod can also access the hello pod.
But that is not really necessary.
The world pod only needs access the world-2 pod,
which is going to return as benchmarks.
So we can limit this access
using RBAC roles to make sure
that the ingress controller can only access hello,
hello can only access world
and world can only access world-2
and to do that we need to use conditions.
So we go to create a ServiceRole
and you go in to add rules.
For example we can say that everything that comes from Istio
can only contact the service hello default svc cluster local
and you can only use the methods get and head
so it can only use these http methods.
Then we can assign a ServiceRole to the hello pod
and we can then write another ServieRole for this hello pod
and then we will bind these ServiceRoles
to this ServiceAccount that is linked with this hello pod
and this ServieRole then says that we can only access
the world service because the hello pod
only needs access the world service.
and again we're going to us a get and head method
and then we can also write a ServiceRole for the world pod
so we need another ServiceAccount
that you going to link with that world pod
and then you're going to use a ServiceRole
that says you can only access world-2
and then we link this ServiceRole with this ServiceAccount
using the binding.
So this I will then show you in the next demo.